Programming Assignment #2 - Puzzle
======================================================================
Due 7 Nov 2012

COMS W4701 - Artificial Intelligence

Evan Drewry - ewd2106


Assignment
======================================================================
Using the general search and graph search code as presented in class,
implement an appropriate enqueuing function for the A\* algorithm. 
Make use of and implement any enhancements you may need for the node
structures.

Implement a problem representation (including state representation,
successor function, same state test, and goal test) for the 8-puzzle.

Implement both heuristic functions shown in class (i.e. misplaced
tiles and Manhattan distance).

Instrument the A\* code to accumulate into a global variable
`*nodes-expanded*` the total number of nodes expanded.

Implement code to generate random solvable initial states.

Run the code to solve 5 random intial states using both heuristics
and compare the results.

Extra Credit (3 points): Develop another consistent heuristic
function that dominates Manhattan distance; run it on the same
random states and compare the results.



Implementation
======================================================================
My implementation of A\* search is an extension of the general search
code covered in class. The `(a-star-search initial-state goalp samep
heuristic)` function calls general search with a priority queue for
the fringe with key
```lisp
(lambda (node)                                                
  (+ (funcall heuristic node)                                 
     (node-path-cost node)))
```
which is the `f(n) = g(n) + h(n)` function associated with A\* search.

To see a trial run of the A\* search (using both heuristics, with five
trials each) load the eight-puzzle.lisp file and enter
```lisp
(run-tests)
```
into the REPL. When each trial runs, it will print the resulting value
of \*nodes-expanded\* along with some informative text about which
trial and heuristic was just run.

The goal state is defined in `*goal*` as a simple lisp list of the
digits 0-9, where 0 represents the blank square. By default, this is
defined to be `'(0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9)` but can be redifined as you
please. The `goalp` function simply calls the `samep` function on the
input state and the `*goal*` variable.

The actual puzzle search functions are implemented as 
`(manhattan-distance-search initial-state)` and
`(misplaced-tiles-search initial-state)` and an initial state can be
generated by calling `(generate-puzzle)` which starts with the goal
and then works backwards randomly to create a scrambled puzzle.
